docs/emacs_lsp/rust_language_server_with_emacs.md, before:

# Rust-Analyzer Configurations for Emacs

## Problem withh rust-analyzer
I have faced a problem with `rust-analyzer` it shows that it is not working. The
reason is that `rust-analyzer` was not working and not installed on my machine.
You can install it using either.

1. Homebrew

```sh
brew install rust-analyzer
# Current I have
╭─ gmbp   GMacBookPro on ~/Desktop/emacs_testing/docs   
├─ﮧ INSERT  19487d12h59m|master ?5
╰─ rust-analyzer --version
rust-analyzer 0.0.0 (833d5301d 2023-05-07)
```
2. Export the already existed `stable` version comes with `cargo` located at `~/.cargo/bin/`

3. You can download the `rust-analyzer` binary from here

- [Rust-Analyzer](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-analyzer/releases)

Currently I have the following installed on my `spacemacs`.

```shell
Workspaces:
Loaded 12 packages across 1 workspace.
Workspace root folders: [AbsPath("/Users/gmbp/Desktop/emacs_testing/rust")]
Vfs memory usage: 22998339

Analysis:
21mb of files
499 trees, 128 preserved
7537 trees, 512 preserved (macros)
0b of library index symbols (0)
0b of module index symbols (0)
0b in total

Debug info:
42010 attribute query entries, 180524 total attributes (4mb for storing entries)
8036 ast id maps

File info:
Crate: emacs_testing(11)
Dependencies: core=Idx::<CrateData>(0), alloc=Idx::<CrateData>(1), test=Idx::<CrateData>(8), std=Idx::<CrateData>(9), proc_macro=Idx::<CrateData>(10)
```

## Can we add inlay
I was able to make the `inlay` working using the following, Adding these will allow to show the types in `Rust`, which is not supporting other `LSP` from the `lsp-config` at the momement.

```lisp
  ;; -------------------------------------------------------------
  ;;                   LISP (configurations)
  ;; -------------------------------------------------------------

  ;; ;; Prettifying Rust
  (add-hook 'rust-mode-hook
            (lambda () ;;(prettify-symbols-mode)
              (setq lsp-inlay-hint-enable t)
              ))

```

Commit message:

[update] updating the current workflow for my ubuntu ...

docs/emacs_lsp/rust_language_server_with_emacs.md, after:

# Rust-Analyzer Configurations for Emacs

- [x] **NOTE**: In my Ubuntu, I discovered that installing the following is
      necessary for the server to function correctly despite having already
      installed it in the path for rust-analyzer. Use the `helm-M-x`.

```lisp
rustic-cargo-install
```

## Problem withh rust-analyzer

I have faced a problem with `rust-analyzer` it shows that it is not working. The
reason is that `rust-analyzer` was not working and not installed on my machine.
You can install it using either.

1. Homebrew

```sh
brew install rust-analyzer
# Current I have
╭─ gmbp   GMacBookPro on ~/Desktop/emacs_testing/docs   
├─ﮧ INSERT  19487d12h59m|master ?5
╰─ rust-analyzer --version
rust-analyzer 0.0.0 (833d5301d 2023-05-07)
```

2. Export the already existed `stable` version comes with `cargo` located at
   `~/.cargo/bin/`
3. You can download the `rust-analyzer` binary from here

- [Rust-Analyzer](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-analyzer/releases)

Currently I have the following installed on my `spacemacs`.

```shell
Workspaces:
Loaded 12 packages across 1 workspace.
Workspace root folders: [AbsPath("/Users/xxxx/Desktop/emacs_testing/rust")]
Vfs memory usage: 22998339

Analysis:
21mb of files
499 trees, 128 preserved
7537 trees, 512 preserved (macros)
0b of library index symbols (0)
0b of module index symbols (0)
0b in total

Debug info:
42010 attribute query entries, 180524 total attributes (4mb for storing entries)
8036 ast id maps

File info:
Crate: emacs_testing(11)
Dependencies: core=Idx::<CrateData>(0), alloc=Idx::<CrateData>(1), test=Idx::<CrateData>(8), std=Idx::<CrateData>(9), proc_macro=Idx::<CrateData>(10)
```

## Can we add inlay

I was able to make the `inlay` working using the following, Adding these will
allow to show the types in `Rust`, which is not supporting other `LSP` from the
`lsp-config` at the momement.

```lisp
  ;; -------------------------------------------------------------
  ;;                   LISP (configurations)
  ;; -------------------------------------------------------------

  ;; ;; Prettifying Rust
  (add-hook 'rust-mode-hook
            (lambda () ;;(prettify-symbols-mode)
              (setq lsp-inlay-hint-enable t)
              ))

```
