docs/emacs_setup/emacs_installation/3_emacs-with_mac_arm64_ep3.md, before:

# How to install Emacs 30

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->

**Table of Contents**

- [How to install Emacs 30](#how-to-install-emacs-30)
  - [Reference](#reference)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->

- You will need to install the emacs form the port that support the integration
  with the icons. This comes with other features that enhance the user
  experreince, speed up the startup time and intializing the better emacs
  client-server modules.

1. Ensure you have already added the brew tab for the `emacs-plus@30`from here:

```sh
brew tap d12frosted/emacs-plus
```

2. Now, we can run the command to install the `emacs30` using:

```sh
brew install emacs-plus@30
                  --with-ctags
                  --with-dbus
                  --with-no-frame-refocus
                  --with-xwidgets
                  --with-imagemagick
                  --with-native-comp
                  --with-poll
                  --with-spacemacs-icon
```

3. You can remove the title bar, by adding the following to the `~/emacs.d/early_init.el` file

```elisp
(add-to-list 'default-frame-alist '(undecorated-round . t))
```

4. Now, we can install spacemacs

```sh
git clone https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs $HOME/.emacs.d
```

5. Now, we can add our `.spacemacs` config file to our current root directory.

## Reference

- [homebrew-emacs-plus support](https://github.com/d12frosted/homebrew-emacs-plus?tab=readme-ov-file)

Commit message:

[docs] adding important documentations for installing python intepreter for shell execution.

docs/emacs_setup/emacs_installation/3_emacs-with_mac_arm64_ep3.md, after:

# How to install Emacs 30

<!-- markdown-toc start - Don't edit this section. Run M-x markdown-toc-refresh-toc -->

**Table of Contents**

- [How to install Emacs 30](#how-to-install-emacs-30)
  - [Reference](#reference)

<!-- markdown-toc end -->

- You will need to install the emacs form the port that support the integration
  with the icons. This comes with other features that enhance the user
  experreince, speed up the startup time and intializing the better emacs
  client-server modules.

1. Ensure you have already added the brew tab for the `emacs-plus@30`from here:

```sh
brew tap d12frosted/emacs-plus
```

2. Now, we can run the command to install the `emacs30` using:

```sh
brew install emacs-plus@30
                  --with-ctags
                  --with-dbus
                  --with-no-frame-refocus
                  --with-xwidgets
                  --with-imagemagick
                  --with-native-comp
                  --with-poll
                  --with-spacemacs-icon
```

3. You can remove the title bar, by adding the following to the `~/emacs.d/early_init.el` file

```elisp
(add-to-list 'default-frame-alist '(undecorated-round . t))
```

4. Now, we can install spacemacs

```sh
git clone https://github.com/syl20bnr/spacemacs $HOME/.emacs.d
```

5. Now, we can add our `.spacemacs` config file to our current root directory.


6. You will need utilitites to install

```sh
brew install libtool # for building vterm for Emacs
pip install importmagic epc
pip install autoflake flake8 debugpy
brew install cmake ninja clang-format
```


7. Necessary installtion steps for Python
Emacs sees the `$PATH` for your global python in the system. You can change the
complier for python using the following step.

- Use `<leader><leader>` and pick `customize-group` RET then select `python` then RET.
- Select `Python Shell Interpreter`: and input the path to your python for
  example `String: /usr/local/bin/python3`.


## Reference

- [homebrew-emacs-plus support](https://github.com/d12frosted/homebrew-emacs-plus?tab=readme-ov-file)
